Add guide to migrating existing codes (#45)
seamapi/api-docs: docs/device-guides/migrating-existing-codes.md

---
description: Learn how to migrate existing lock access codes into Seam
---

# Overview

Prior to using Seam to manage your devices, you may have used another lock management system to manage
the access codes on your devices. Where possible, we will help you keep any existing access codes on devices, and

> transition those codes to ones managed by Seam.

Reviewer: Maybe 🤔 
```suggestion
transition those codes to ones managed by your Seam workspace.
```

> Where it isn't possible to transition existing codes to be Seam-managed, we will allow you to get a list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If migrating existing codes into your Seam workspace is not possible, you can still get a list of
```

> these existing codes, and replace them with new Seam-managed access codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these existing codes, and replace them with new access codes managed by your Seam workspace.
```

> # Unmanaged codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Unmanaged access codes
```

> Seam differentiates between managed codes and unmanaged codes. When you create an access code on a device in Seam,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seam differentiates between managed access codes and unmanaged access  codes. When you create an access code on a device in Seam,
```

it is created as a managed code. Codes that exist on a device that were not created on Seam are considered unmanaged
codes. We strictly limit the operations that can be performed on unmanaged codes to:

> - Viewing a list of the unmanaged codes on a device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Viewing a list of the unmanaged codes on a device.
```

> - Converting an unmanaged code into a managed code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Converting an unmanaged code into a managed code.
- Deleting an unmanaged code from the device.
```

Author: didn't want to add this yet until we support it, will add it in then

{% hint style="info" %}

> Strictly speaking, unmanaged codes are any codes on a device that were not created by the current workspace. So for example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strictly speaking, unmanaged codes are any codes on a device that were not created by the current workspace. For example,
```

if you are within _Workspace 1_ and created codes _Code 1_ and _Code 2_, those two codes would be considered unmanaged if you
were looking at the same device in _Workspace 2_. Therefore, unmanaged codes include both codes not managed by Seam at all, and
codes that might be managed by a different workspace within Seam.
{% endhint %}

> # Viewing the unmanaged codes on a device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Viewing unmanaged codes on a device
```

You can retrieve a list of all unmanaged access codes for a particular device using a `GET /access_codes/unmanaged/list` request,
passing in `device_id` as a query parameter, for example:

{% swagger method="get" path="/access_codes/unmanaged/list" baseUrl="https://connect.getseam.com" summary="Get a list of unmanaged codes" %}
{% swagger-description %}

{% endswagger-description %}

{% swagger-parameter in="body" name="device_id" %}

{% endswagger-parameter %}

{% swagger-response status="200: OK" description="" %}

```javascript
{
  "access_codes": [{
    "code": "1988",
    "name": "Code 1",
    "status": "set",
    "created_at": "2022-08-26T12:50:17.858Z",
    "access_code_id": "26d6138c-6524-4f3c-ac96-43cc3bea0a8d",
  }]
}
```

{% endswagger-response %}

{% endswagger %}

# Converting unmanaged codes into managed codes

> You can generally convert unmanaged access codes into managed ones using a `POST /access_codes/unmanaged/update` request,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can convert unmanaged access codes into managed ones using a `POST /access_codes/unmanaged/update` request,
```

and passing in a JSON body similar to:

```js
{
    "access_code_id": "xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx",
    "is_managed": true
}
```

> Note that the request will complete immediately but the conversion is an asynchronous process that happens in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request will return immediately, but the conversion is an asynchronous process that completes in the background.
```

> You can listen to the `access_code.unmanaged.converted_to_managed` and `failed_to_convert_to_managed` to be notified when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can listen to the `access_code.unmanaged.converted_to_managed` and `access_code.unmanaged.failed_to_convert_to_managed` events to be notified when
```

conversion succeeds or fails.

> Once an unmanaged code is successfully converted to a managed code, all operations available on access codes created within
> Seam are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an unmanaged code is successfully converted to a managed code, all of the normal managed access code operations and behavior is available.
```

# Unsupported conversion

Some third-party device providers strictly limit the information available about existing access codes on a device.

> That means that for devices connected using these providers, we cannot convert unmanaged codes to managed ones. The current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, for devices connected using these providers, we cannot convert unmanaged codes to managed ones. The current
```

list of providers which do not support conversion are:

- SmartThings
- igloohome

For SmartThings devices, you can still see a list of all unmanaged codes on the devices using the `GET /access_codes/unmanaged/list`

> endpoint but you will not be able to see the actual pin code for the access codes (the `code` property won't be present).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint, but you will not be able to see the actual pin code for the access codes (the `code` property won't be present).
```
